For months, if not years, it was a question of when, not if, Mrs Clinton would announce she is making a second bid for the US presidency. Now that question has been answered.

With the parlour guessing games over, Mrs Clinton faces the long, gruelling road that the US political system demands of its would-be presidential aspirants. The Iowa fairground flesh-pressing, the blustery New Hampshire doorstepping, the nonstop cross-country flights and seemingly interchangeable stump speeches, public rallies and fundraising events that drag on for month after endurance-ebbing month.

All of this takes place under the eternal scrutiny of a press corps hungry for a story and political opponents looking for the choice soundbite or misstep that can sink a candidacy.
This, of course, won't come as any surprise to the former secretary of state. She went through two presidential campaigns with her husband in the 1990s and her own bid - which came up just short to Barack Obama - in 2008.

This time around, however, Mrs Clinton's path to the Democratic nomination appears much easier. Unlike 2008 there's no inspirational, once-in-a-generation opponent like Mr Obama waiting in the wings. There's not even a charismatic, battle-tested candidate like former vice presidential nominee John Edwards or a Hispanic governor with foreign policy chops like Bill Richardson in the field.

Campaignspotting
But if Mrs Clinton's nomination campaign will be easier, actually winning the presidency could be just as difficult - or more so. Unlike 2008, the Democratic nominee will be defending eight years of her party's rule, with all the baggage that comes with it. Instead of facing a Republican Party on its heels, fresh from massive losses in both chambers of Congress, a nominated Mrs Clinton will have to defeat a Republican candidate with the political wind at his back.

Mrs Clinton also faces an ongoing congressional investigation into her response to the attacks on the US consulate in Benghazi, Libya - which has already spun into controversy over her privately managed email server while secretary of state.

If this is Hillary's moment, she's going to have to earn it. And the mistakes that sunk her 2008 campaign against Mr Obama - if they aren't addressed - could prove equally fatal to her 2016 presidential efforts.

Mrs Clinton's first campaign was beset by bickering among her advisers, for instance. She replaced her campaign manager midway through the primary calendar, and every week it seemed there was a new anonymous leak, as various factions within her camp vied for power.